Here's my ruthless-but-loving take on Debater. The concept is genuinely exciting — the blockchain education angle, the AI debate arena, prediction markets — this could be a standout open source project. But right now the spec has some real problems that will kill it before it ships.
The brutal truth: this is over-scoped by about 3x.
You've listed enough features for a funded startup's 6-month roadmap. A single developer reading this GitHub repo will see the folder structure, feel the ambivalence ("should we encrypt localStorage?"), and close the tab. Great open source projects ship something complete that teaches one thing extremely well. This spec teaches twelve things at 30% depth.
Let me break it down:
What's genuinely brilliant and should be the core:
The Solidity code viewer with live function highlighting is the single most novel idea here. Nobody does this. "Watch the smart contract function light up as you place a bet" — that's a tweet, a viral demo, a conference talk. Build everything else around that one insight.
What's going to wreck you:
The offline simulator is a trap. Pre-scripted "high-quality" debates will feel dead immediately. Users will try two debates, realize it's canned, and leave. If you're not calling a real LLM, the product has no soul. Make the API key entry so frictionless that users actually use it — a dead-simple modal on first load, then it's gone.
The "Agent Lab & Tournament Grid" with ELO leaderboards, automated spectator matches, and local databases should be v2 or v3. It's a distraction from the one thing that needs to be perfect: watching two AI agents debate while a fake blockchain settles the outcome.
The prediction market / betting system is essentially fake USDC. That's fine for a sandbox, but the current spec treats it with the same weight as the actual debate. It should be a consequence of the debate, not a parallel system with its own complexity.
What the spec is missing entirely:
No mention of the actual debate UX. When Agent A responds to Agent B, what makes it visceral? Streaming tokens? A typing indicator that mimics the model thinking? Turn timers? The chat interface description is two sentences in a spec with thousands of words about folders and state machines.
No shareable output. After a debate ends, users have no artifact to show anyone. A static HTML export of the debate transcript + the "blockchain settlement" would make this wildly shareable.
No clear "hook" moment. A first-time user lands on the page — what do they do in the first 10 seconds? The spec assumes they'll read the Arena and understand the system. They won't.
The localStorage API key question: Don't encrypt it, don't add a PIN. Just put a clear notice: "Your key stays in your browser." Friction here loses users. The audience building AI projects understands localStorage.
Here's what I'd tell you to build instead:
  ::view-transition-group(*),
  ::view-transition-old(*),
  ::view-transition-new(*) {
    animation-duration: 0.25s;
    animation-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.19, 1, 0.22, 1);
  }
VvisualizeVvisualize show_widgetThe v1 pitch should be one sentence: "Watch two AI agents debate any topic while a Solidity smart contract settles the outcome in real time."
That's a GitHub star, a Hacker News post, a retweet. The ELO leaderboard and automated spectator matches are great features — but they're retention features for a product that doesn't have acquisition yet.
Three specific rewrites I'd make to the spec:
Replace "High-Fidelity Offline Simulator" with "Graceful Degradation" — if no key is present, show a beautiful empty-state that explains the concept visually and has one big button: "Add your API key to start." Don't fake it.
Replace the tournament grid from v1 scope with "Debate history" — just a list of past debates with their topic, winner, and settlement amount. Simple, useful, achievable.
Replace the components/AgentCreator.tsx modal with two hardcoded default agents (e.g. "Socratic" and "Empiricist") that users can tweak inline before starting. Full agent creation is v2.
The bones here are excellent. The Solidity viewer idea is genuinely original and will resonate hard with the crypto-developer audience. Sharpen the scope, nail the core loop, and this ships in a weekend instead of a quarter.